Countable + P space => Alexandrov (#1776)
pi-base/data: theorems/T000894.md

---
uid: T000894
if:
  and:
  - P000093: true
  - P000147: true
then:
  P000090: true
---

Let $x \in X$, $A$ be the neighborhood kernel of $x$ and, by {P93}, $V$ be a countable open neighborhood of $x$.

> If $V=A$ we are clearly done.

Author: Note this case distinction is actually necessary for $\bigcap S = A$ to hold

Otherwise, we find for every $y \in V \setminus A$ an open neighborhood $U_y\subseteq V$ of $x$ not containing $y$.

> Since $X$ is countable, so is $S := \{U_y\mid y \in V \setminus A\}$. By {P147}, this implies $\bigcap S = A$ is open, which implies the assertion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let $x \in X$ and let $A=\bigcap\{U\text{ open in }X: x\in U\}$ be the neighborhood kernel of $x$.
We need to show that $A$ is open in $X$.

Take a countable open neighborhood $V$ of $x$.
For each $y\in V\setminus A$ there is an open neighborhood $U_y$ of $x$ not containing $y$.
Since $V$ is countable, the countable intersection
$V\cap\bigcap\{U_y: y\in V\setminus A\}$ is open by {P147}.
And that intersection is equal to $A$.
```
There was no need to separate the argument into two cases.

Also, the notion of "neighborhood kernel" is not used in the literature.  I have looked for it and have never seen it.  I used it in some of the mathse posts because it seems descriptive and a good abbreviation for "kernel of the neighborhood filter" (kernel of a family of sets does appear, see the references in https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel_(set_theory)).  Anyway, all that to say that when we use that terminology, we need to write down what it means because a random person getting to that pi-base page will not know what it means.

Author: No you need two cases, if there is no $y$, by definition of intersection, $\bigcap S$ (in my notation) is the entire space, i.e. $X$

Author: Neighborhood kernel is likely used in some literature, otherwise the name wouldnt appear here
https://leanprover-community.github.io/mathlib4_docs/Mathlib/Topology/Defs/Filter.html#nhdsKer
(where do you it from by the way?)

I thought its fine to not mention it in the proof since I added it to the def of Alexandroff, but sure

Reviewer: > No you need two cases, if there is no y , by definition of intersection, ⋂ S (in my notation) is the entire space, i.e. X

You don't need two cases if you rewrite the argument slightly.  Note that in my revised version the intersection is $V$ with the rest.  So everything works out.

Reviewer: You can cut and paste it to see it in preview mode

Author: ah sorry i misread

Author: looks good then!

Reviewer: > Neighborhood kernel is likely used in some literature, otherwise the name wouldnt appear here https://leanprover-community.github.io/mathlib4_docs/Mathlib/Topology/Defs/Filter.html#nhdsKer (where do you it from by the way?)
> 
> I thought its fine to not mention it in the proof since I added it to the def of Alexandroff, but sure

Yes, I had seen it in mathlib.  There it was called "neighborhoods kernel" (with "neighborhoods" in the plural).  It seemed to me that "neighborhood kernel" with the singular was also fine, which is what I used in the mathse post.  But I had also looked in the literature and did not see "neighborhood kernel" anywhere.
